+++
title = "Chef Test Kitchen Enterprise overview"
linkTitle = "Test Kitchen Enterprise"

[menu.workstation]
title = "Overview"
identifier = "workstation/tke/overview"
parent = "workstation/tke"
weight = 10
+++

Use Chef Test Kitchen Enterprise to automatically test cookbooks across any combination of platforms and test suites:

- Test suites are defined in a kitchen.yml file. See the configuration documentation for options and syntax information.
- Supports cookbook testing across many cloud providers and virtualization technologies.
- Uses a comprehensive set of operating system base images from Chef’s Bento project.

The key concepts in Test Kitchen Enterprise are:

- **Platform**: The operating system or target environment where a cookbook is tested.
- **Suite**: The Chef Infra Client configuration, including a Policyfile or run-list, and optionally, node attributes.
- **Instance**: The combination of a specific platform and suite, each with an autogenerated name.
- **Driver**: Manages the lifecycle actions for an instance, such as creating the instance, converging it (installing Chef Infra Client, uploading cookbooks, running Chef Infra Client, etc.), setting up testing, verifying suites post-converge, and destroying the instance.
- **Provisioner**: The component that runs the Chef Infra Client code, using either chef-zero or chef-solo with the chef_zero and chef_solo provisioners, respectively.

## What's the difference between Test Kitchen and Chef Test Kitchen Enterprise?

We forked the community version Test Kitchen and rebranded it as Chef Test Kitchen Enterprise starting with version 1.0.0.
The repository for Test Kitchen Enterprise is [chef/chef-test-kitchen-enterprise](https://github.com/chef/chef-test-kitchen-enterprise).

This update focuses on branding changes and supports passing licenses to Chef Infra Client 19. These changes are only in Chef Test Kitchen Enterprise and aren't backported to the community version of Test Kitchen.

The way you run Test Kitchen Enterprise remains unchanged. The [community Test Kitchen documentation](https://kitchen.ci/docs/getting-started/introduction/) and [Chef-hosted Test Kitchen documentation](https://docs.chef.io/workstation/kitchen/) are still accurate.

We plan to add more drivers and features, which Chef will support, to Chef Test Kitchen Enterprise in future releases.

{{< note >}}

The only supported driver in Chef Infra Client 19 RC2 is the kitchen-dokken driver.

{{< /note >}}
